Write about the following topic:
Some people think women should be allowed to join the army, the navy and the air force just like men.
To what extent do you agree ordisagree?
Give reasons for your answer. Write at least 250 words. model answer:


Source: http://www.testbig.com/ielts-writing-task-ii-essays/some-people-think-women-should-be-allowed-join-army-navy-and-air-forc-0
Model answer 1:

Whether women should be allowed to serve in the military has triggered spirited debate. Some assert that the status quo should be changed and women should be entitled to join the armed forces. Personally, I fundamentally agree with their assertion-for three reasons.

History has shown that women are fully capable of performing well in the military. Historically, there were a host of valiant women soldiers whose achievements really put their male counterparts to shame. One need only look at the classic examples of Joan of Arc and Mulan to see how exceptionally women could perform on the battlefield. In my observation, their determination, courage and dignity, to this day, are still being admired by male soldiers and civilians alike throughout the world.

Moreover, from an enlightened standpoint, female patriots should be granted the right to go to the front line when their motherland is involved in a war. Admittedly, gender inequality was a highly controversial issue in the twentieth century. However, now twelve years into the new millennium, women can learn and teach, work and supervise, vote and voted in most countries just like men. In light of this sweeping progress in gender equality, there is no sense in denying them the right to defend their home country when a war breaks out.

In sum, keeping military services out of bounds of women in the information age is unwarranted. I have been convinced that it is in the best interest of a nation if women are also granted equal rights in this particular arena.


Source: http://www.ielts-mentor.com/writing-sample/writing-task-2/1297-ielts-writing-task-2-sample-307-women-should-be-allowed-to-join-the-army-the-navy-and-the-air-force-just-like-men
Model answer 2:

Since the dawn of the time, women have been playing crucial role in the civilization and development of mankind. It is clear that, women can play a vital role in various defence forces so the writer of this statement thinks that they are a blessing for their country.

To commence with, women will be a boon to the force. To be clear, the world has realized that women are equally capable as men in both mentally and physically abilities. As women are blessed with intellectual and cognitive skills, they can use these invaluable skills in the force. In addition to this, as we know, women are already serving in the various  other physically demanding job sectors  such as  white collar and blue collar worker. It is unwise to select them in this job sector. More importantly, women are naturally less aggressive and peace makers and these qualities are blessing for the force and once they come to leadership these helps to reduce conflict among the nations. Further, women are already part of police department and they have proved that they are capable of doing adventures and riskier jobs. To cite an example, women leaders such as Queen Isabella, Victoria and the like ruled vast spectrum of power.

On the other hand, women have physiological barrier to join in defence force. To make it clear, since women have to give birth to the child and nurture them, they need maternity leave for that. If women are in the force, it would be impossible for them to get leave at the time of war. Apart from that, many retrogressive people argue that, women's primary function is to prepare food and look after children and husband so they should not opt to go for a job.

To conclude, in this advanced era, women have been working in every realm and they have proved that they can contribute a lot to the society so they should take in defence force.


Source: http://lang-8.com/shutarogunji/journals/147069286380159602177176993987792367070
Model answer 3:

Nowadays, many people think women should have the same rights to obtain work as men do. Some of them also think governments should accept women soldier in their military organizations such as the army, navy and the air force. I tottaly agree with the former opinion, but not quite with the later.

because of equality between and women, the number of female presidents, deputies and doctors is increasing. The majority of people think about this trend as a good thing. Therefore, it is no wonder if some women want to join the military wanting to protect their own nations and families by themselves.

However, to maintain security, sometimes it is inevitable for soldiers to kill somebody who acts against their social rules such as terrorists. In my personal opinion, this may not be appropriate and seems even contradictory for a woman who raises her children. On the other hand, male soldiers have done the same thing for a long time, maybe since the primitive times. 

Still,I would like to say that women should work in safe fields, for instance as teachers, secretaries, sales people and so on. If they really want to join armies, it would be best to work in supportive departments. To collect information or in transportation that plays an important role in the army and it helps in protecting their countries.

In conclusion, I think both men and women should have an equal right to get jobs. However, working in a military organization may be, in my opinion, one exception.


Source: http://www.writingacademia.com/ielts-writing-task-2/women-should-be-allowed-to-join-the-army-the-navy-and-the-air-force
Model Answer 4:


With the development of liberal sphere, we have come a giant step closer for women to become full citizens in every sense of word. Now, women are joining in armed forces which are previously occupied men alone. View differs considerably when it comes to the issue that whether or not women ought to be permitted to be part of the defense forces as like men. Some people contend that biologically women are inferior to men and certain things should be based on gender. Whereas, others oppose this notion since it is the obvious violation of women’s fundamental rights. However, in some ways I agree with the idea that some professions deserve a particular gender, but in others I must take the opposite stance.

The proponents who do not want to allow women to take part in military believe that certain things not made for women and the military is not an exception in this regard. They find, this job for women, not only difficult, but equally challenging in terms of physical condition since women are biologically disqualified. This seems like that men cannot have babies. That is to say society will survive if certain things are prerogative of certain gender.

However, historical and empirical facts witness different evidences. There, historically, were a host of valiant legendary women soldiers who changed the face of military. A case in point is Opha M. Johnson who demonstrates the example that how exceptionally a woman could perform on the battle ground. However, nowadays, women are involved in almost every profession and are excelling furiously like no time in the history. Accordingly, they should not be dissuaded in army only because of their physical inferiority. Since, with the huge development of military technology, we have light military hardware than ever before which is easily compatible with women. Finally, we have to maintain the democratic norm and women should be free to select whatever career path they wish for. That is to say that we need to create a conductive environment in which women are the ultimate authority of their own.

All in all, I want to say that it would be unwarranted if we make women deprived of entering the military career in this age of liberty, of information, and of technology. I have been convinced that our nation would be served best if women go hand in hand with men in this particular arena.
