Essay topics: Some say that people living in high-rise apartments are lonely and unhappy, while others say that it’s advantageous to stay in high-rise apartments. Discuss advantages and disadvantages. Give your opinion.


Source: http://www.eltnest.com/2016/06/ielts-essay-57-some-people-say-that.html
Model Answer 1:

With shortage of land and increasing urbanization, many high rise buildings are being constructed. Although some people feel it is a good lifestyle development, there are some others who believe it makes you feel cut-off from people.  This essay shall discuss both sides of living in high rise apartments.

The lifestyle of living in an apartment building is very different from living in broad houses and townie neighbourhoods. The apartment is a comparatively much smaller space to live in. Naturally people undergoing this change are liable to feel lonely. Since apartments are also more affordable, there is a chance of your neighbours changing often, which doesn’t give you that long term sense of belongingness towards your neighbours. In urban areas, people run on rigid work hours and many a times, these neighbours are too busy to even exchange greetings or make efforts to mingle with each other. However, these reasons mostly affect the elderly; in other words, those who have stayed in country homes for much of their lives.

High rises are often located in premium neighbourhoods and people choosing to live in apartment buildings are mostly nuclear families. Apart from the desired privacy, you can also access a great view of the city from the windows. Also, there are a lot of people who live above, below and beside you, and not everyone would be unfriendly. High-rise buildings also provide a 24 hour security guard, therefore having a door person present all the time to check people coming in, receive packages and help you hail a cab are very good merits. Looking at the soaring land prices and the population too, it cannot be refuted that the future in infrastructure would be high rises only. It would be wiser to focus on the pros, and try to eliminate or avoid the cons that bother you.


To conclude, I feel everyone has a preference on the kind of a place they want to call a home. But being in a high rise apartment doesn’t make you lonely or unhappy as such. It depends on how one wants to perceive it.


Source:

