WRITING TASK 1
You should spend about 20 minutes on this task.
A friend has agreed to look after your house and pet while you are on holiday.
Write a letter to your friend. In your letter
• give contact details for when you are away
• give instructions about how to care for your pet
• describe other household duties
Write at least 150 words.
You do NOT need to write any addresses.
Begin your letter as follows:
Dear ....................., 



WRITING TASK 2
You should spend about 40 minutes on this task.
Write about the following topic:
Some people believe that teaching children at home is best for a child’s
development while others think that it is important for children to go to school.
Discuss the advantages of both methods and give your own opinion.
Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own
knowledge or experience.
Write at least 250 words. 


model answer

WRITING TASK 1 – Model Answer
Dear Carolyn,
Thank you for agreeing to house-sit for me. If you need to contact me during my holiday,
I’ll be staying at the Imperial Hotel in Bundaberg. If it’s urgent, however, please ring my
mobile phone, which I’ll keep with me at all times. I’ve written the numbers on a sticky
note which I’ve left on the fridge.

My cat needs to be fed twice daily so each morning and evening put a handful of cat
biscuits in his dish. You will find these in the kitchen pantry. Also, please check
throughout the day to make sure he has fresh water. You can give him a small bowl of
milk in the evening.
I would like you to water my plants, too. The indoor ones in the lounge only need water
once every few days but the plants on the balcony need to be watered daily unless there
has been heavy rain. Finally, for security, please clear my mail box every day and keep
the outside lights on at night.
I look forward to seeing you on my return.
Yours,
Katie 
2
WRITING TASK 2 – Model Answer
The argument over whether learning at home or at school is better for children has not
been settled yet. Whereas home education offers better protection with individual
learning and opportunities for families to bond, schools have a superior range of material
and human resources. Ultimately, I think the school experience is best for children.
There are several advantages for children who learn at home. Firstly, they can spend
more time with their parents and siblings. Many social problems are associated with
families not spending enough quality time together. Teaching children at home also
provides them with an individualised learning environment. Instruction is customdesigned
and moves at the child’s own pace and in accordance with his or her individual
learning style. Finally, home schooling protects children from bullies and others who
might be a bad influence.
On the other hand, the school environment also offers advantages for children. Schools
encourage children to socialise with their peers and learn how to cope with gossip,
bullying and peer pressure. In addition, children will receive better tuition across a range
of disciplines, as schools have teachers who are trained in special subjects. What is
more, schools provide better access to physical resources such as sports equipment,
musical instruments and library books.
I believe that children are better off in a school environment. Although family time and
individual learning are important, the range of expertise and resources that schools offer
cannot be matched in the home. School environments may present difficult social
situations, but so too does the real world and children must learn to navigate these on
their own. 
